When we dive into styling and theming I only gaps.
We've got a couple of concepts that all are kind of working together.
We've got a theme.
We got CSI as variables which will play an important role.
We got the grade we already had a look at which also is kind of related to how our components look and
feel we've got attributes like the color attribute on buttons that allow us to style components.
We got custom C as s styles we could write or custom SAS styles doesn't matter.
So how do all these things work together.
What's up with all these different ways of adjusting the look of our application.
Well let's go through them step by step and you'll see that they actually all kind of work together
gather D four important concepts.
We can differentiate where we will have a look at are the general theme of the app see as variables
then how we can work with components and their attributes and how we can actually all the right our
own customers see us ask or SAS rules to adjust the app to our requirements.
Now with theme I mean collection of general settings that influenced the app wide styling.
Now that means things like setting some base colors some base sizes base margins so all these general
settings which will then be reflected across your entire app across all your components and will actually
implement the theme through a concept called CSA as variables.
So data is how these come into play.
Now see us as variables in case you're not aware of what that is.
CSA has variables are a bit like SAS variables but if you don't know that that's probably not helping
you either right.
So C is as variables are in the end variables you can define in C as s where you can store values like
a color.
So a hex code for example or some margins or simply any units you could store 20 pixels where to ram
in a C is as variable and then you can assign that C S as a variable as a value to your normal C as
as properties so you could say the background color of this item should use to see us as a variable
x y set and then you only need to declare that variable once and whenever you change that all places
in your app that refer to it will automatically change and that is very powerful.
The difference to SAS variables is that see us as variables are baked into modern browsers and they
are for you don't need to compile them and you could then even changed him at runtime which is not possible
with SAS variables.
So this is how C is as variables will come into play and of course we'll have a look at how they work
and how we could create our own ones and how we use them and they are used in this theming process where
you use C as as variables to set up these base cholera sends on.
Now you can always override your thematic component level though so if you generally say I have a blue
main colour but for this specific button you want to have a red background that is always possible and
therefore you should think of this theming process.
As a general rule set for your entire app to set up a general app identity a general look and feel now
will see us as variables as I mentioned help us with that in ionic.
They can also be used to override default components styles and I will show you how this works in this
module too.
You can use them as I mentioned to reuse see as as property values.
So to define a value once and then use it in multiple places of your app and you can even add your own
variables ionic gives you a lot of built in ones which you can just overwrite but you can also of course
create your totally new ones which you then use in your own CSX code so you see us as variables to set
dynamic reusable styles or values for styles Now what about components like the ionic grid or the different
attributes like color we can pass to different components.
Well the end these components and these attributes like the color attribute of a button they are adjustable
through C as as variables because they in the end just consume your general theme.
So the idea here is just that you can then use a declarative approach to set the color of a button in
a template but based on your general settings so you could say This button should use my primary color.
But what the primary color is is defined for your theme.
You could choose from a collection of default styles.
So for example a button accepts the color attribute where you can choose from nine different colors
ionic understands and you can all of course combine that with custom styles.
So by default the color property of a button refers to the global theme you set up but no one's stopping
you from writing your own CSA as a rule where you select a button by tag by I.D. by class whatever you
want and you style it however you want.
You can set up any customs he has us code and that customs see as this code will then override the globally
configured styles.
So we're using components and attributes to adjust styling per component and page.
We can colored button with the color attribute with the primary color on page one.
And with the secondary color on page two.
But we do configure it declarative fully so in the template and our customers see us as code may use
your C as as variables you can tap into those your customers use us code as well.
No one's stopping you from that.
And you write custom see as as to style anything you can style your ionic app just the way you want
because it is a normal web app in the end and they a you can style every element be that an ionic element
or a normal H SYMBOL element in whichever way you want.
You can use customs he has s rules to override our base styles.
So you could say this but normally would have the primary color but I will color it red.
And no one's stopping you from doing that.
And of course you can also add missing styles.
So if you're saying this item here should have a width of 300 pixels and you can't read you achieved
as with the ionic grid and so on.
Well then you can just select that item and write your own C as as rule to make it 300 pixels wide and
you're done.
So you use your custom sees a styles for fine tuning.
This is how these things all work together and does this.
Now what we'll go through over the next lectures in this module.